about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

Hi,

My name is [Ali Faraji](https://faraji.info/).

I am a Machine Learning enthusiastic and an open-source fan. I am into Mathematics.

## Goal for 2025

- Defend my Master's thesis
- Contribute more to open-source projects
- Get at least C1 in French.
- Learn a new programming language for fun.
  - I am thinking about [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/)
- Write more blog posts; specifically most of my ideas and experiments in Machine Learning that might be useful or insightful for others.

## Day to Day Work

I am currently hacking on (as of Feb 2025):

- Machine Learning & Unlearning
- Stuff Related to LLMs & Transformers
- Spatiotemporal Data

## Skills

My skills include but not limited to Python, Pytorch, Data Visualization, Statistics & Probability, Java EE, Spring, RDBMS, Angular, HTML, CSS, JS, PHP, Networking, Arduino, Server Configuration, Linux, Docker, AWS, API Development, Git,CI/CD, aspect oriented programming, object oriented programming, eclipse IDEs, wordpress plugin development, LLM-based application development.

Yes, those are a lot of skills 🤯, but I am not a master of all of them. I am a master of none 😏, but I am a jack of all trades. I am a fast learner and I am always eager to learn new things by jumping into documentation/code and finding out what is behind it. :))

## Open Source

I love open-source. I have contributed to some open-source projects. I have also developed some open-source projects. Always looking for new/old open-source projects to contribute to. specially in the field of Machine Learning or scientific programming.

## Sports

I love gym, swimming, and cycling.

## Contact

You can contact me via email: [ali@faraji.info](mailto:ali@faraji.info)

-- Ali

Commit message:

Enhance 'About' page title with emoji :) all otherones have one

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: 👋 About
permalink: /about/
---

Hi,

My name is [Ali Faraji](https://faraji.info/).

I am a Machine Learning enthusiastic and an open-source fan. I am into Mathematics.

## Goal for 2025

- Defend my Master's thesis
- Contribute more to open-source projects
- Get at least C1 in French.
- Learn a new programming language for fun.
  - I am thinking about [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/)
- Write more blog posts; specifically most of my ideas and experiments in Machine Learning that might be useful or insightful for others.

## Day to Day Work

I am currently hacking on (as of Feb 2025):

- Machine Learning & Unlearning
- Stuff Related to LLMs & Transformers
- Spatiotemporal Data

## Skills

My skills include but not limited to Python, Pytorch, Data Visualization, Statistics & Probability, Java EE, Spring, RDBMS, Angular, HTML, CSS, JS, PHP, Networking, Arduino, Server Configuration, Linux, Docker, AWS, API Development, Git,CI/CD, aspect oriented programming, object oriented programming, eclipse IDEs, wordpress plugin development, LLM-based application development.

Yes, those are a lot of skills 🤯, but I am not a master of all of them. I am a master of none 😏, but I am a jack of all trades. I am a fast learner and I am always eager to learn new things by jumping into documentation/code and finding out what is behind it. :))

## Open Source

Passionate about open-source! I've contributed to and developed projects, especially in Machine Learning and scientific programming. Always eager to collaborate; let's build something great!

## Sports

I love gym, swimming, and cycling.

## Contact

You can contact me via email: [ali@faraji.info](mailto:ali@faraji.info)

-- Ali
